1) So basically the thought process is simple. Using mandala art for storing the key to an encrypted data and the decryption is done using scissor cipher method. It is similar to a QR code but a bit more advanced and difficult to crack. 


Why is it difficult to crack? 


To understand why its difficult to crack first go to the website https://in.pinterest.com/chitra14689/mandala/ and take a look at different mandala examples. Of course right now at this stage we are going to use simple mandalas which are shown below. We can observe that a mandala is nothing but a combination of various different symmetric patterns. We are exactly using this feature of mandala i.e variety of patterns. We are going to store the key into one of the many patterns of mandala. Say a hacker is trying to break into the key stored in our mandala so as to gain access to the encrypted data. But how will he/she know which pattern we have actually focused on and how have we actually used that pattern? Let me elaborate. Look at the mandala below "C:\Users\SHARVIN JOSHI\Desktop\P\MANDALA\mandala-minimalist-simple-silhouette-vector-illustration_801978-15600-3597873028.jpg". In this mandala there are a lot of designs like circles, leaves, compressed ovals etc. But we have focused on the dark circles in this mandala for making our algorithm. So the pattern used will be the dark coloured circles. First of all for the hacker this will be difficult to find out, that which pattern have we exactly used to make our key algo. Now how are we using this pattern, it might be that we have used the number of circles, or maybe distance between two opposite circles in the mandala, or it might even be number of circles between two consecutive leaves. First of all this is difficult to figure out. Secondly, even if any hacker finds out which pattern we are using, it still wont be able to figure out how we are going to use that info. The key might be the latus rectum length of an parabola having equation y^2 = ax where a = number of circles in mandala (say). Or it can be sum of coordinates of point at the angle of "a" degrees from x-axis of an circle having the equation x^2+y^2=a^2. So we can have endless possibilities here. And ofcourse we wont be using simple obvious functions like parabola or circle. We will use complicated functions or bring in many small obvious functions to make a bigger non-obvious function. Or in case even make our own function according to our need. Depends on our requirement.



2) The work flow will be.....Consider two clients and one server and the names of the clients is client 1 and client 2. Say client 1 has to send an imp message to client2. He will obv encrypt it. So how our system will work is that each client will have their own mandala. So client 1 will have his own mandala and client 2 will have his own mandala. And the server will also contain a copy of both these clients. So client 1 has to send the message now. The message which client 1 has to send will be encrypted using the key stored in his mandala. This encrypted message will be send to the server. 

Point to be noted : Here in the path between client 1 and the server even if a hacker(man in the middle) tries to interfere, he/she will only receive an encrypted message with no clue of the key.

Once the message is reached to the server the server will extract the key from mandala of client 1 and mandala of client 2 and will perform some functions so as to get a single combined key. Then both the key(combined) and the encrypted message will be passed on to client 2. Once message is reached to the client 2 he/she will use the key from their mandala and the combined key to get the key of client 1. As the message was encrypted using client 1's key, client 2 will now be able to decrypt the message.

Point to be noted : Between the path from server to client 2, even is there is a man in the middle who collects this information, he/she will again recive the encrypted message and the combined key which is absolutely useless.
